starting with someone who has no seo
strategy currently let's start there
do you still think that content do you
think there's like a a site-wide level
of optimization that has to happen like
straight up title tag meta tag you know
optimization of different queries on the
site and internal linking structure and
then a content marketing strategy on top
of that to add value to the site as a
base level seo strategy you're like what
would you suggest to someone who first
first level is they don't currently have
an seo strategy and then we'll ask about
someone who already does and what they
can optimize but just base level if you
don't have one what do you do in today's
world because i really don't know
yeah so i'm going to share my screen if
you don't mind let's make this one
all right so so in the last month i got
roughly 2.3 million unique visitors
visits and then 20 million pages this is
without ads that is wild
so yeah so how do i do that
all right so
the easiest thing and i'll actually show
you some stats on this right in a bit um
so the easiest thing is i have a app you
can type in a url
and it's called ubersuggest it's free
uh you can type in a url
and it'll give you the estimated traffic
of any site or whatever out there you
know you can look at keywords top pages
etc but what i wanted to show you is
this is the easiest thing so you just
click on site audit again this is free i
don't even capture an email like
straight up this is just free so like
you don't have to put in an email to use
it and it'll tell you everything that's
wrong
pages your score your load time and
you'd be like all right let's look at my
issues for critical errors
and you can just go into all of them be
like 31 pages have a low
word count and it'll break them all down
and it'll tell you how to make more
content on those pages
exactly and they'll tell you like what
is this and how to fix it and then you
can go to warnings and you can do the
same thing two pages have duplicate meta
descriptions what is it right so like
what is it and how do i fix it
nice that's like it just breaks down
everything you need to fix and priority
from how hard is it to implement
how much traffic will you get by fixing
it so
that's the first start part of
seo right it's just like the lowest
hanging fruit the second part is all
about keywords so like if i'm trying to
target the keyword
marketing
and
this is super effective so like or
digital marketing right and i use these
tactics on my own site to give you the
idea if i type in digital marketing i
think i'm like number one or two or
something here's all the paid listing
and i am the first organic listing
i do that for a lot of terms like online
marketing
i'm up there somewhere i'm number two
funny enough number one's also my
website although i sold it
technically i didn't sell it i'd give it
away um to focus on neil patel but
you know i was also number one and two
and i even ranked for
seo somewhere i think on page one number
one is moss
google google wikipedia then me
um so
here's a simple thing i do it's all
about finding the right type of keywords
right
okay the way i find the right type of
keywords is
one you know you can just type in
keywords like digital marketing or
whatever you want to target
here's my process
i go and i look for keywords
and i just click view all keywords and
it'll show me everyone who's ranking
their how many links they have their
domain score socials etc so i'll go find
keywords and it gives me solid metrics
when i mean solid as in non-opinionated
metrics like the average web page that
ranks in the top 10 has 435 backlinks
and a domain score 49. so i know is it
going to be easy for me to get 435 is it
going to be hard because i can have a
rough idea of how many links i have so
i'll just go through here and i'll find
keywords as you can see there's like 500
suggestions here here's some other
related keywords that post from our
database
this has 30 000 recommendations and then
i'll look for like questions that people
are asking in the digital marketing
arena right like
is digital marketing important why
digital marketing is permanent is
digital marketing the future right also
look for comparison based keywords
digital marketing versus traditional
this works more so for product based
stuff so if you're e-commerce like uh
nike shoes versus reebok shoes or
mailchimp versus convertkit right right
right um and then the last step when i'm
trying to create content after i find
some keywords that are typically i look
for keywords that are high in volume
high in cpc
and i want to go after keywords that
have a
low seo difficulty so that's
abbreviation of sd it's like digital
marketing company
has a ton of uh has a high cpc volume is
not bad
low
seo difficulty which means people are
typing that in me being an agency
probably a good keyword to go after
because it probably converts well people
are paying 17 a click
right
and the way you do this is you just
create content so there's a content
ideas section of the tool
and it'll show you all the content in
per country so you can break it down by
whatever country or language or region
you want
and technically you can break all the
reports down by that
and you can end up you want to look for
articles that
are somewhat popular
because it's breaking it down to social
shares as well as
articles that have decent search traffic
as well as a lot of backlinks
so like here i like this one because the
estimated business is 1000 a month they
have 41 backlinks this is the 10
essentials tips for b2b marketing
success in a digital economy right so
i'd be like huh this isn't bad i can
potentially write on something like this
i can see that it's already ranking for
a lot of terms
and now i have terms to target for
that's related to that main keyword
as well as i can reach out to all you
know i can start targeting some of these
keywords
and if i can rank higher than them i'll
get more traffic
i can also go after all the sites that
are linking to them
and try to hit them up saying i got a
better article than them and tried to
convince them to link to me this is how
i do seo in a nutshell still to this day
long-form value-rich
content and essentially backlinks and
on-site interlinking you know page rank
sculpting structure or some version of
that i'm talking to you from 2012 seo by
the way i haven't you know i mean this
yeah
my world was seo for for seven years and
it was deep seo and then i've not
thought about it since so everything
that i'm saying is what i remember so
i'm you know correct me if i'm not no no
you pretty much got the concepts right
and you know but now there's just tools
to automate all of it so like i can put
in a domain link like a competitor or my
own set like neil patel and i can see
everyone who links to them right and
like this is just outreach that i can do
and what i love doing is i'll go find a
competitor and this works in e-commerce
all day long
and in e-commerce funny enough it works
even better because there's just not as
much competitors for seo everyone wants
to do the paid stuff right now
especially with ads like i can go take
my compare like moz i would do this for
e-commerce site whatever it may be i can
see who links them and outreach to them
but even better i can just click on top
pages and you do this for any e-commerce
site you can see
your competitors their top pages their
backlinks how many vid these pages are
getting how many social shares they have
it'd be like oh moz's beginner's guide
to seo here are all the keywords they're
ranking for i just click view all
and i'll be like
sadly it's free but sometimes it takes a
second to load because it's pulling so
many keywords from a database other than
for like seo what is seo marketing seo
uh what is that website seo optimized
for seo seo optimizing like they just
have all the keywords that they just
keep getting traffic for and you can
keep going next next next or export them
and again
let me ask you this so
so
just for just to you're super super high
level at this i'm going to break it down
for someone who may not be as
sophisticated what we've talked about is
step one
optimize your website itself with
on-site seo factors which uber suggests
will tell you what is broken and tell
you how to fix it from the act the site
audit version step two is
go through and look at keywords that
you're already ranking for and keywords
that competitors are ranking for in the
keyword traffic analyzer see which ones
have um you know high value and low
competition and create long-form
value-rich articles you can find ideas
for these long-form value rich articles
and the content ideas suggestion of your
tool uber suggests and then
and now i'm going a level which you have
not said this but i want to just make
sure i've got this right is the factors
that will go into that ranking or not
have to do with both social suggestions
i.e shares and activity on social back
links to that particular
article and your actual website itself
because if your site you know your main
site has a bunch of people linking to it
then that power is distributed to the
pages on that site and if you're
interlinking on your own site properly
you're going to filter some of that
power into these pages that you're
creating
and then let me ask you this
where does paid amplification fit into
this does paid amplification fit into it
in the sense of you write a long form
article that you want to rank for a
given query that you've used ubersuggest
to find and then you do some page post
amplification or page post engagement
ads to you know
amplify that particular article to your
target audience which then gets it
social signals which then support it in
ranking or how does paid fit in
yeah you don't have to do paid at all so
easiest way to do paid if you want to
help you just boost the post on facebook
and that'll give it a little bit more
legs and it'll run faster